# Intersection Live Object List Open Standards for CAV and Safety Applications
Intersection live object list is critical for road safety technologies in smart cities and connected and autonomous vehicles (CAVs). This list provides real-time information about the identity, location and movement of vehicles, pedestrians, and other objects in a given area. This information is used to improve traffic flow, reduce accidents, and enhance overall road safety.
Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communications also rely heavily on live object lists, as vehicles need to be able to communicate with one another and with infrastructure to safely navigate the road. By communicating with other vehicles and infrastructure, vehicles can share information about their location, speed, and intended actions. This allows them to make more informed decisions, such as predicting and avoiding potential collisions. Object lists act as a communication protocol to enable this real-time information sharing for V2X communications.
Given that various technologies are involved in road safety and CAVs, the idea of defining a national open standard and framework for intersection live object lists encompasses certain benefits. It increases efficiency both in road safety technology development and in traffic flow. It has the potential to save costs on technology development as processes for data collection, data processing and data flow can be standardized. It also introduces more flexibility in the technologies that produce and consume the data. Consequently, more accurate data and information will be available, enabling better decision making. In the end, by speeding up the development process of road safety technologies, it will improve road safety at a faster pace.
In this project, we focused on evaluating some of the existing Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) technologies that are used as field devices and provide data for road safety assessment. In our case study, we considered a Radar sensor, a Lidar sensor, a regular Monocular Camera, and a 360 Monocular Camera. We evaluated the object lists provided by each of the technology providers and tried to analyze them from a road safety perspective. Each object list had different attributes, but they all shared some basic attributes that made them feasible for road safety analytics. We also consulted with the autonomous vehicle industry regarding the attributes of the live object list, and incorporated their feedback in our recommendations. We also consulted with city ITS managers in Canada to understand their perspective on using sensor-equipped intersections to generate object lists for CAV and traffic safety applications, including their forecasts on the likelihood of sufficiently equipping a large proportion of intersections with the different sensor types under investigation. 
Here we provide a summary of the key attributes. These attributes can be grouped into 4 categories based on their relevance and usage. These 4 categories include, time, location, road user, and action prediction attributes. Below, we describe the importance of these attributes, their various representations, and our recommendation on the most appropriate representation.

## Time
One of the key requirements for live object lists in smart cities and CAVs is the ability to provide an absolute timestamp for each provided data point. This allows for accurate tracking of the objects movement and enables real-time decision-making. For example, in a CAV, an absolute timestamp allows the vehicle to accurately determine its position and take appropriate action to avoid collisions.
There were various representations of Time in our studied object lists such as frame count in the case of videos or signal count in the case of other sensor types, relative time with respect to when the sensor starts capturing data, and absolute time based on Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). However, we recommend using an absolute time based on UTC for the live object list, as it allows various ITS technologies to synchronize their data, facilitating the data fusion process to improve the accuracy of safety analysis. It also allows for CAVs and ITS technologies to have the same time reference, which facilitates the communication between them.
## Location
Another important requirement for object lists is to provide location information. This allows for precise tracking of objects and enables the creation of detailed maps of the area. In a smart city, this information can be used to optimize traffic flow and reduce congestion. In a CAV, it is used to safely navigate the vehicle through the environment.
Location information was presented differently in our assessed live object lists. Some were using a local coordinate system for an intersection, while others were using the geographic coordinate system as a method to present absolute location. Either approaches include two components for the location information, one uses X-Y coordinate system, while the other uses the latitude-longitude coordinate. 
We recommend using a global representation of location using the geographic coordinate system presented in latitude-longitude. This allows various ITS technologies to share similar information to improve accuracy. It also facilitates ITS and CAV technologies communication as they will use the same convention to capture the location of various road users. In addition, smart city applications can benefit from this global representation of location information, enabling better decision making for traffic control and road safety. 
## Road User
Another key requirement for live object lists in road safety technologies is the ability to accurately capture various features of road users. We have identified road user type, road user dimension and road user unique identifier to be the minimum required features. The ability to distinguish between different types of vehicles, such as cars, trucks, and buses, as well as the ability to identify different types of vulnerable road users (VRUs) such as pedestrians and bicycles is important for the proper functioning of CAVs and the safety of all road users.
Given that a particular type of road user such as a truck, can have different dimensions, while this dimension plays an important role on safety hazards, capturing the road user dimension is also very important. Having a unique identifier is also an important requirement for object lists in road safety technologies. This unique identifier allows for the tracking and identification of individual road users over time which is required for assessing critical safety situations.
All of the studied object lists presented road user type by integers due to its memory efficiency compared to strings. However, they all included a mapping key to be able to recognise which road user category each integer represents. Given that some ITS technologies may not be capable of identifying specific road user types, it is ineffective to recommend a specific set of road user types to be captured by all ITS or CAV technologies. Therefore, we only recommend to present road user types by integers, and define clearly what each integer represents. 
Given that primary safety applications at an intersection deal with a two dimensional space, capturing the length and width of a road user is an efficient representation of its dimension. In our study, only some object lists included dimension information, while knowing the dimension of a road user is a determining factor in some safety analysis. Therefore, we recommend presenting the dimension of road users by length and width in the Metric system. This simplifies capturing the shape of a road user, and provides a small safety boundary around the corners of some road users such as vehicles. Regarding the accuracy level of the captured dimensions, anything in the order of a few centimeters is good enough for primary safety applications.
Regarding road user unique identifier, all of the studied object lists represented each detected road user by a unique and consecutive integer. These integers do not necessarily need to match on various ITS and CAV technologies, and it is only a way of distinguishing them within the object list of each technology. Other attributes such as time, location and road user type can be used to find unique road users across different object lists produced by different ITS or CAV technologies. Therefore, we also recommend presenting a unique identifier for each road user by unique and consecutive integers. Such integers can be reset to 0 at midnight to minimize the memory storage requirements. 
## Action Prediction
Another key requirement of a live object list is the ability to provide enough information to predict the actions of road users. This includes the ability to predict the movements and intentions of vehicles, and VRUs. The ability to predict actions is crucial for the safe operation of CAVs and the overall safety of road users in smart cities as it gives enough time to make appropriate decisions and mitigate unsafe situations. The minimum two requirements that enable movement prediction are road user velocity and orientation. Having access to instantaneous velocity and orientation of road users enables us to predict potential instantaneous actions of road users.
Even though both velocity and orientation information can be extracted from location and time information, some ITS technologies can provide more accurate information directly. In the studied object lists, some ITS technologies were presenting velocity information as just a speed value, while some others presented it in the form of X-Y velocity components in a local coordinate system. The orientation was also presented in a few object lists through angles with respect to a local coordinate system. In order to provide a uniform standard across different technologies, we recommend providing speed in the Metric system as a single velocity value, and presenting orientation in the True North system that is captured by an angle. This global standard allows different ITS and CAV technologies to share information to better predict road user actions. 
## Live Object List Attribute Recommendation Summary
A summary of our recommended minimum live object list attributes for road safety applications in smart cities and CAVs is presented in the following table.

| Live Object List Attribute | System |
| --- | --- |
| Global time stamp | UTC |
| Geo-location of road users | Geographical coordinate system |
| Road user type | Integers (with provided mapping key) |
| Road user dimension | Length-Width in the Metric system |
| Road user unique identifier | Consecutive integers |
| Velocity of road users | Speed in the Metric system |
| Orientation of road users | True North |


## Survey of Canadian ITS Managers
We sent survey requests to the ITS managers of the top 25 Canadian cities as well as provinces. We received a response from the following agencies

- City of Toronto
- City of Calgary
- City of Ottawa
- Region of Durham
- City of Hamilton
- Halifax Regional Municipality

Although the response rate is low, the insights gained from these agencies are valuable and are represented by the following key points:

-  The most commonly installed current sensing technologies among those under investigation is a 360 degree camera. Current install rates range from 1 to 33% of intersections. 
- The most common sensing technology under investigation expected for future installation is also a 360 degree camera. 
- Lidar install rate was 0% for respondents. Most respondents expect this to continue in the future while 2 respondents expect a small number of LIDAR installs in the next 5 years.
- Several respondents indicated high (e.g. 100% or near 100%)  current or future install rates for PTZ cameras, but these are not suitable for generating live object lists because they can be moved around by operators and cannot be relied on. They are also often not connected to any kind of AI processor. 
- When asked “What percentage of your signalized intersections do you anticipate will be generating live object lists within the next 10 years”, 66.7% of respondents forecasted it will be in the range of 1 to 25%, 16.7% indicated a range of 51% to 75%, and 16.7% indicated they were not sure. 
- In general comments, respondents identified the need to work on secure, reliable communication and the need to separately classify and analyze vulnerable road users. 

## High Level Description of Experiment Results
We partnered with one LIDAR supplier, one RADAR supplier, one monocular camera supplier, and one 360 camera supplier and attempted to evaluate their object lists using sensor fusion and other manual validation approaches. 

The high level results from these experiments are as follows:

- The radar object list generated all the fields we expect and recommend in above for an object list standard. The radar system also had the highest range. However, issues with establishing reliable communication to the radar sensor and object list file sizes prevented us from retrieving a substantial data set suitable for evaluation. The feasibility of using radar to generate object lists is not known one way or the other from this study due to these issues. 
- The LIDAR object list generated many of the fields we expect and recommend above for an object list standard. The spatial accuracy was excellent. However road user classification accuracy was not good and there were many classification switches for the same user track ID. File sizes coming off the LIDAR were immense and we also encountered communication challenges. This sensor also had degraded performance for black vehicles and when it was very bright outside. 
- The camera object list generated all of the fields we expect. The spatial accuracy was not as good as the earlier sensors. Road user classification and intention/movement accuracy were excellent. The communication system for secure file transfer was smooth and reliable feasible data sizes for object list packages. However, the field of view was limited compared to the earlier sensors.
- The 360 camera object list generated all of the fields we expect. The spatial accuracy was a bit lower but our engineers worked with the provider to improve spatial accuracy and speeds substantially. Road user classification and intention/movement accuracy were excellent, while the field of view covers a much larger span compared to the regular camera. The communication system for secure file transfer was smooth and reliable feasible data sizes for object list packages. 

In conclusion, all four sensor types have unique advantages and limitations. The 360 camera system seems the most practical at this point. In the future, under multi-sensor fusion applications, LIDAR could supplement the 360 camera with better spatial information and radar could supplement the 360 camera with higher range. 
